commandline.md, before:

# Navigating the Command Line
Although it may seem intimidating at first, using command line allows you to quickly perform tasks in a non-cumbersome way.

## Accessing Unix

First navigate to the command line. If you are using a Mac, open Terminal (in Applications in the Utilities folder).

If you are using a windows machine, use [Putty](https://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/latest.html) or another terminal emulator.

You should see a black window that has a command prompt that looks like this:

```bash
Usernames-Macbook-Pro:~ Username$
```
## BASH Commands

There are hundreds of different commands you can use to perform a variety of different functions (hold ESC and press the "y" key for a complete list), but here are a few of the most useful. By typing "man" before the name of each command, you can get information about how to use them.

`cd`  
Executed by itself will bring you to your home directory, while adding a path after cd will bring you to that directory. A directory is basically a folder that holds your files or other directories.  

`cd ..`  
Changes directory to one-up the directory hierarchy  

`ls`  
Lists the files and directories in the current directory.

`ls -a`  
Lists the files and directories in the current directory including the hidden (dot) files.

`pwd`  
Returns the path to the current directory

`cp file_name path_to_new_directory`  
Copies a file from you current directory and places in a different directory.  

`mv file_name path_to_new_directory`  
Moves the file to a new directory.  

`cat` 
Concatenates files to standard output. Will print the contents of the file on the screen. `cat file1.txt file2.txt > newfile.txt` will concatenate 2 files into a third file.

`rm` 
This will remove or delete a file (be careful--cannot undo)

`mkdir` 
Makes a directory

`rm -rf` 
Removes a directory and all its contents

control `c` 
Kills the current process

control `z` 
Stops or pauses current process

`fg` 
Resumes last stopped job in the foreground

tab: autocompletes while typing

tab tab: see available autocomplete

`ls -ll` 
Lists the files in a directory as well as their dates and permissions

`du -sh` 
This tells you the disk usage--what is taking up space in a directory

`chmod` 
Change permissions

`exit` 
Disconnect form Colonial One or current node
Once you feel comfortable with these commands and moving around using the command line, you can create and edit files using a text editor like [vim](https://coderwall.com/p/adv71w/basic-vim-commands-for-getting-started) or [nano](https://www.howtogeek.com/howto/42980/the-beginners-guide-to-nano-the-linux-command-line-text-editor/), or [log onto Colonial One](colonialone.md).

Commit message:

text from
https://ryanstutorials.net/linuxtutorial/manual.php

commandline.md, after:

# Navigating the Command Line
Although it may seem intimidating at first, using command line allows you to quickly perform tasks in a non-cumbersome way.

## Accessing Unix

First navigate to the command line. If you are using a Mac, open Terminal (in Applications in the Utilities folder).

If you are using a windows machine, use [Putty](https://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/latest.html) or another terminal emulator.

You should see a black window that has a command prompt that looks like this:

```bash
Usernames-Macbook-Pro:~ Username$
```
## man pages

By typing `man` before the name of each command, you can get information about how to use them. The manual pages are a set of pages that explain every command available on your system including what they do, the specifics of how you run them and what command line arguments they accept. Some of them are a little hard to get your head around but they are fairly consistent in their structure so once you get the hang of it it's not too bad.To search for something in the man pages, use `/` and then type the search term. To proceed to the next instance of the term, use `n`. To return to the command line, type `q`.

## BASH Commands

There are hundreds of different commands you can use to perform a variety of different functions (hold ESC and press the "y" key for a complete list), but here are a few of the most useful. 

`cd`  
Executed by itself will bring you to your home directory, while adding a path after cd will bring you to that directory. A directory is basically a folder that holds your files or other directories.  

`cd ..`  
Changes directory to one-up the directory hierarchy  

`ls`  
Lists the files and directories in the current directory.

`ls -a`  
Lists the files and directories in the current directory including the hidden (dot) files.

`pwd`  
Returns the path to the current directory

`cp file_name path_to_new_directory`  
Copies a file from you current directory and places in a different directory.  

`mv file_name path_to_new_directory`  
Moves the file to a new directory.  

`cat` 
Concatenates files to standard output. Will print the contents of the file on the screen. `cat file1.txt file2.txt > newfile.txt` will concatenate 2 files into a third file.

`rm` 
This will remove or delete a file (be careful--cannot undo)

`mkdir` 
Makes a directory

`rm -rf` 
Removes a directory and all its contents

control `c` 
Kills the current process

control `z` 
Stops or pauses current process

`fg` 
Resumes last stopped job in the foreground

tab: autocompletes while typing

tab tab: see available autocomplete

`ls -ll` 
Lists the files in a directory as well as their dates and permissions

`du -sh` 
This tells you the disk usage--what is taking up space in a directory

`chmod` 
Change permissions

`exit` 
Disconnect form Colonial One or current node
Once you feel comfortable with these commands and moving around using the command line, you can create and edit files using a text editor like [vim](https://coderwall.com/p/adv71w/basic-vim-commands-for-getting-started) or [nano](https://www.howtogeek.com/howto/42980/the-beginners-guide-to-nano-the-linux-command-line-text-editor/), or [log onto Colonial One](colonialone.md).
